README.md, before:

# collectionbuilder-sa-spec-exhibits

A customized version of CollectionBuilder-SA used to build standalone exhibit sites for University of Idaho SPEC.

- uiblackhistory
- hiroshima
- 1918flu
- ernieday
- lrcdp

Objects workflow:

- digital objects are stored on Webpages drive, in Webpages > library > spec > objects, in a folder matching the collection stub name. 
    - E.g. uiblackhistory, will be in S:Webpages\library\spec\objects\uiblackhistory , which will be on web at https://webpages.uidaho.edu/library/spec/objects/uiblackhistory
- the web location of the digital objects must be set in "_config.yml", in the `objects` option using the full url to their location
    - E.g. `objects: https://webpages.uidaho.edu/library/spec/objects/hiroshima`
- digital objects should not be committed to the repository ("objects" is gitignored). However, you can add objects on your local machine to test and/or generate derivatives.
- to process objects with Rake task:
    - add new items to folder "objects/archives"
    - run `rake generate_derivatives`
    - the task will check "objects/archives", then copy files to "objects/", and generate derivatives in "objects/small/" and "objects/thumbs/"
    - this folder structure can be copied over to the Webpages shared drive into the appropriate folder (e.g. S:Webpages\library\spec\objects\uiblackhistory )
    - once copied over, the template will work (using the live web images) locally or on the live web
- to test locally (without moving things to Webpages)
    - process objects with Rake as above
    - change config `objects` value to `objects: /objects`
    - when you `jekyll s` it will load images from the local objects folder rather than Webpages.

**Important filename notes:** 
The Rake task downcases all filenames and extensions to avoid issues on the web. 
It is best to start by creating all lowercase filenames, with no spaces, no odd characters (other than `-` or `_`), and no periods (`.` other than the extension).
If you didn't start with lowercase filenames, be sure to downcase your metadata `filename` column.
Also, please ensure filenames are unique *without* the extension (e.g. avoid using both `ex1.jpg` and `ex1.pdf`), since CB won't be able to produce separate derivatives.

Commit message:

update readme with repository status

README.md, after:

# collectionbuilder-sa-spec-exhibits

> As of February, 2023, all U of I digital collection branches in this repository have been moved to branches in [UIdaho collectionbuilder-csv-template](https://github.com/uidaholib/collectionbuilder-csv-template), and will be maintained there. This repository has been archived and is no longer in use.

A customized version of CollectionBuilder-SA used to build standalone exhibit sites for University of Idaho SPEC.

- uiblackhistory
- hiroshima
- 1918flu
- ernieday
- lrcdp

Objects workflow:

- digital objects are stored on Webpages drive, in Webpages > library > spec > objects, in a folder matching the collection stub name. 
    - E.g. uiblackhistory, will be in S:Webpages\library\spec\objects\uiblackhistory , which will be on web at https://webpages.uidaho.edu/library/spec/objects/uiblackhistory
- the web location of the digital objects must be set in "_config.yml", in the `objects` option using the full url to their location
    - E.g. `objects: https://webpages.uidaho.edu/library/spec/objects/hiroshima`
- digital objects should not be committed to the repository ("objects" is gitignored). However, you can add objects on your local machine to test and/or generate derivatives.
- to process objects with Rake task:
    - add new items to folder "objects/archives"
    - run `rake generate_derivatives`
    - the task will check "objects/archives", then copy files to "objects/", and generate derivatives in "objects/small/" and "objects/thumbs/"
    - this folder structure can be copied over to the Webpages shared drive into the appropriate folder (e.g. S:Webpages\library\spec\objects\uiblackhistory )
    - once copied over, the template will work (using the live web images) locally or on the live web
- to test locally (without moving things to Webpages)
    - process objects with Rake as above
    - change config `objects` value to `objects: /objects`
    - when you `jekyll s` it will load images from the local objects folder rather than Webpages.

**Important filename notes:** 
The Rake task downcases all filenames and extensions to avoid issues on the web. 
It is best to start by creating all lowercase filenames, with no spaces, no odd characters (other than `-` or `_`), and no periods (`.` other than the extension).
If you didn't start with lowercase filenames, be sure to downcase your metadata `filename` column.
Also, please ensure filenames are unique *without* the extension (e.g. avoid using both `ex1.jpg` and `ex1.pdf`), since CB won't be able to produce separate derivatives.
